sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade
sudo apt install chrony
sudo systemctl status chronyd
sudo systemctl start chronyd
sudo systemctl enable chronyd


To install the Chrony daemon on your Ubuntu server, you can use the apt package manager, which is the default package manager for Ubuntu. Follow these steps:

Open a terminal on your Ubuntu server. You can do this by connecting to your server via SSH or by accessing it directly if you have physical access.

Update the package list to ensure you have the latest information about available packages and upgrade any existing packages to their latest versions by running the following commands:



sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade

Install the Chrony package by running the following command:

sudo apt install chrony

After the installation is complete, the Chrony service should start automatically. You can check its status with the 

following command:


sudo systemctl status chronyd

You should see output indicating that Chrony is active and running. If it's not running, you can start it with:



sudo systemctl start chronyd
Optionally, you can enable Chrony to start automatically at boot time by running:


sudo systemctl enable chronyd
To configure Chrony, you can edit its configuration file located at /etc/chrony/chrony.conf using a text editor like Nano or Vim. For example, to edit the configuration with Nano, you can run:


sudo nano /etc/chrony/chrony.conf
Make any necessary configuration changes, such as specifying NTP servers, allowing access to the NTP service, or configuring logging options. Here's an example of adding NTP servers:

server ntp.example.com iburst
server ntp2.example.com iburst
Save your changes and exit the text editor.

Restart the Chrony service to apply the configuration changes:



sudo systemctl restart chronyd
Chrony should now be installed and configured on your Ubuntu server, providing accurate time synchronization. You can also check the Chrony status with the chronyc tracking command to verify that it's synchronizing with the configured NTP servers:



chronyc tracking
That's it! You have successfully installed and configured the Chrony daemon on your Ubuntu server.